README.md, before:

# Brasileirão Simulator

This project provides a simple simulator for the 2025 Brasileirão Série A season. It parses the fixtures provided in `data/Brasileirao2025A.txt`, builds a league table from played matches and simulates the remaining games many times to estimate title and relegation probabilities.

## Usage

Install dependencies from `requirements.txt` and run the simulator:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py --auto-calibrate --simulations 1000
```

A progress bar is shown by default during the simulation runs. Use the
`--no-progress` flag to disable it when running just a few iterations or when
incorporating the simulator into automated scripts.

The simulator runs in parallel by default using all available CPU cores. Use the
`--jobs` option to specify a custom number of workers. Passing `--jobs 4` for
example will execute the Monte Carlo iterations using four parallel processes.
The summary table is automatically saved as `brasileirao.html` in the same
directory as `main.py`. Pass `--html-output <file>` to choose a custom path.
Use `--from-date YYYY-MM-DD` to ignore results on or after a given date and
simulate from that point forward. Use `--auto-calibrate` to derive the draw
percentage and home advantage from past seasons before running the simulation.
When this flag is supplied, every file matching `data/Brasileirao????A.txt` is
loaded automatically (except the file provided via `--file`).

The default draw rate and home-field advantage are
`DEFAULT_TIE_PERCENT` (33.3) and `DEFAULT_HOME_FIELD_ADVANTAGE` (1.0).
Use `--tie-percent` and `--home-advantage` to override these values on the
command line. `DEFAULT_JOBS` still defines the parallelism level.

Alternatively, pass `--auto-calibrate` to estimate these parameters using all
historical files in the `data/` directory. The computed draw rate and home
advantage are then used for the simulation.

Matches are simulated purely at random with all teams considered equal.

The script outputs the estimated chance of winning the title for each team. It then prints the probability of each side finishing in the bottom four and being relegated. It also estimates the average final position and points of every club.
All of these metrics are derived from a single Monte Carlo loop so that title chances, relegation odds and projected points remain consistent.

## Tie-break Rules

When building the league table teams are ordered using the official Série A criteria:

1. Points
2. Number of wins
3. Goal difference
4. Goals scored
5. Points obtained in the games between the tied sides
6. Team name (alphabetical)

These rules are implemented in :func:`league_table` and therefore affect all simulation utilities.

## Project Layout

- `data/` – raw fixtures and results.
- `src/simulator.py` – parsing, table calculation and simulation routines.
- `main.py` – command-line interface to run the simulation.
- `tests/` – basic unit tests.

The main functions can be imported directly from the package:

```python
from simulator import (
    parse_matches,
    league_table,
    simulate_chances,
    simulate_relegation_chances,
    simulate_final_table,
    summary_table,
)
```

All simulation functions accept an optional ``n_jobs`` argument to control the
degree of parallelism. By default ``n_jobs`` is set to the number of CPU cores,
so simulations automatically run in parallel. When ``n_jobs`` is greater than
one, joblib is used to distribute the work across multiple workers. The tie
percentage and home advantage are fixed at their defaults of 33.3% and 1.0.

## Disclaimer

This simulator is provided for fun and entertainment only. The predictions and
tables produced are unofficial and may be inaccurate. Do not rely on them for
betting or other serious purposes.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add team strength calibration and parameter support

README.md, after:

# Brasileirão Simulator

This project provides a simple simulator for the 2025 Brasileirão Série A season. It parses the fixtures provided in `data/Brasileirao2025A.txt`, builds a league table from played matches and simulates the remaining games many times to estimate title and relegation probabilities.

## Usage

Install dependencies from `requirements.txt` and run the simulator:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py --auto-calibrate --simulations 1000
```

A progress bar is shown by default during the simulation runs. Use the
`--no-progress` flag to disable it when running just a few iterations or when
incorporating the simulator into automated scripts.

The simulator runs in parallel by default using all available CPU cores. Use the
`--jobs` option to specify a custom number of workers. Passing `--jobs 4` for
example will execute the Monte Carlo iterations using four parallel processes.
The summary table is automatically saved as `brasileirao.html` in the same
directory as `main.py`. Pass `--html-output <file>` to choose a custom path.
Use `--from-date YYYY-MM-DD` to ignore results on or after a given date and
simulate from that point forward. Use `--auto-calibrate` to derive the draw
percentage and home advantage from past seasons before running the simulation.
When this flag is supplied, every file matching `data/Brasileirao????A.txt` is
loaded automatically (except the file provided via `--file`).

The default draw rate and home-field advantage are
`DEFAULT_TIE_PERCENT` (33.3) and `DEFAULT_HOME_FIELD_ADVANTAGE` (1.0).
Use `--tie-percent` and `--home-advantage` to override these values on the
command line. `DEFAULT_JOBS` still defines the parallelism level.

Alternatively, pass `--auto-calibrate` to estimate these parameters using all
historical files in the `data/` directory. The computed draw rate and home
advantage are then used for the simulation.

Use ``estimate_team_strengths`` to calculate attack and defense multipliers for
each club:

```python
from calibration import estimate_team_strengths
strengths = estimate_team_strengths(["data/Brasileirao2024A.txt"])
```

Pass ``strengths`` via the ``team_params`` argument when calling the simulation
functions to incorporate team quality into the projections.

Matches are simulated purely at random with all teams considered equal.

The script outputs the estimated chance of winning the title for each team. It then prints the probability of each side finishing in the bottom four and being relegated. It also estimates the average final position and points of every club.
All of these metrics are derived from a single Monte Carlo loop so that title chances, relegation odds and projected points remain consistent.

## Tie-break Rules

When building the league table teams are ordered using the official Série A criteria:

1. Points
2. Number of wins
3. Goal difference
4. Goals scored
5. Points obtained in the games between the tied sides
6. Team name (alphabetical)

These rules are implemented in :func:`league_table` and therefore affect all simulation utilities.

## Project Layout

- `data/` – raw fixtures and results.
- `src/simulator.py` – parsing, table calculation and simulation routines.
- `main.py` – command-line interface to run the simulation.
- `tests/` – basic unit tests.

The main functions can be imported directly from the package:

```python
from simulator import (
    parse_matches,
    league_table,
    simulate_chances,
    simulate_relegation_chances,
    simulate_final_table,
    summary_table,
)
```

All simulation functions accept an optional ``n_jobs`` argument to control the
degree of parallelism. By default ``n_jobs`` is set to the number of CPU cores,
so simulations automatically run in parallel. When ``n_jobs`` is greater than
one, joblib is used to distribute the work across multiple workers. The tie
percentage and home advantage are fixed at their defaults of 33.3% and 1.0.

## Disclaimer

This simulator is provided for fun and entertainment only. The predictions and
tables produced are unofficial and may be inaccurate. Do not rely on them for
betting or other serious purposes.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
